# SAARTHI
We aim to address the issue of limited access to accurate and reliable vital sign monitoring for patients who are in need of continuous monitoring outside of a clinical setting. Our device will provide a portable, non-invasive solution for measuring and recording BP, SpO2, temperature, and ECG values, enabling real-time monitoring and analysis of the data, which will help healthcare professionals to identify potential health issues and make more informed decisions about patient care.

In this project the patient’s health monitoring is done by using our proposed work in the form of a small kit and a web application for the same. The patient's heartbeat, vitals, body temperature, oxygen level, BP, ECG and PPG are collected by using various sensors which are embedded in the kit. The data collected is then processed by a processing unit Arduino . The processed data is then transmitted via wireless data. The patients health monitoring system consists of hardware and software design. The hardware part deals with the mechanical and construction design, electrical and electronic circuitry. The software part deals with the programming of Arduino IDE and web applications. The Arduino is connected to all the sensors. The signals from the sensors are processed in the Arduino and the data is transmitted to the website using a Wi-Fi module.

Heart rate is calculated by using Sensor which calculates the beat per minute and displays it in the display. An optical heart rate sensor measures pulse waves, which are changes in blood vessel volume caused by the heart pumping blood. An optical sensor and a green LED are used to detect pulse waves by monitoring volume changes. In the sensor block, using an optical filter tailored for pulse wave detection reduces the effects of ambient light such as red and infrared rays. This allows for the acquisition of high-quality pulse signals even when operating outside. The temperature is calculated similarly by using a temperature calculating sensor and the selective temperature is displayed at the display panel. All these components are activated and functioning with the help of Arduino. The complete circuit is bound to a glove except for the parts that clamp to the body for ECG inspection. This makes the whole project easily portable and convenient for the consumer/customer. So in this way our project overcomes the mentioned problems like machine size, weight and portability and only measuring one parameter at a time.
